---
layout: seminar
title: "Very Important Faces: yet another Character Annotation Tool "
tag: seminars
quem: Asla Medeiros e Sá, Cristina Nader Vasconcelos, Martina Spohr Goncalves and Paulo Cezar Carvalho 
---

# {{ page.title }}

- Quem: {{ page.quem }}
- Onde:  FGV (sala 317)
- Quando: {{ page.date | date_to_string }}

This presentation will describe the ongoing project of creating yet
another character annotation tool, the Very Important Faces (V.I.F.)
tool. Although the idea of character annotation is really not a new
subject, off-the-shelf software annotation tools have proved to be
designed for contexts where the assumptions are not the same as in the
case of historic photographic catalogs. Thus, the adoption of such
tools has shown, in practice, to be below the expectations. The most
evident limitation of the majority of the available photo annotation
tools is that they do not process information present in captions and
texts produced by experts that describe the contents of the
photographic collections. Our dataset is constituted of a contemporary
historic character photographic collection, with informative captions,
available for public access. The design proposal of the V.I.F. tool is
to help the experts responsible for collection organization to migrate
the information, documented in the texts associated to the images, to
W3C metadata standards. The V.I.F Tool implementsface detection
algorithms. It also detects proper names in previously inserted
captions to help the user (expert)match names and faces in order to
produce a photo annotation compatible with semantic web principles.

## Nota para visitantes

A presença é gratuíta e não exige confirmação. A FGV não permite a
entrada de homens vestindo bermuda ou chinelo.
