---
layout: seminar
title: An introduction to combinatorial designs and graph decompositions
quem: Francesca Merola
onde: FGV, Praia de Botafogo, 190, sala 411
hour: 10:00h
---

Combinatorial design theory is the study of arranging elements of a
finite set into patterns (subsets, words, arrays) according to
specified rules. Some of its first results date from the eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries in the research of Euler, Kirkman, Cayley,
Sylvester and others, but it was in the twentieth century that the
study of combinatorial designs emerged as an academic subject in its
own right. When Fisher and his colleagues developed the mathematics of
experimental design in the 1920s, combinatorial design theory was born
as a field intimately linked to its applications. 

Design theory today is an active area of combinatorics with close ties
to several other areas of mathematics including group theory, the
theory of finite fields, the theory of finite geometries, number
theory, combinatorial matrix theory, and graph theory, and with a wide
range of applications in areas such as information theory, statistics
and computer science.

The aim of this talk is to give a brief overview of some parts of the
theory of combinatorial designs and graph decompositions, touching on
some of the problems that are studied in the field, describing
algebraic methods and constructions and mentioning some of the many
applications of designs and decompositions.


## Observação para visitantes

A presença é gratuíta e não exige confirmação. A FGV não permite a
entrada de homens vestindo bermuda ou chinelo.
