---
layout: seminar
title:  "Hours of service regulations in road freight transport: an optimization-based international assessment"
quem: Thibaut Vidal
onde: FGV - Praia de Botafogo, 190, room 317
tex: false
hour: 16:00h
---

Driver fatigue is internationally recognized as a significant factor
in approximately 15 to 20% of commercial road transport crashes. In
their efforts to increase road safety and improve working conditions
of truck drivers, governments worldwide are enforcing stricter limits
on the amount of working and driving time without rest. In this
presentation, an effective optimization algorithm is described for
minimizing transportation costs for a fleet of vehicles considering
business hours of customers and complex Hours of Service (HOS)
regulations. The algorithm combines the exploration capacities of
population-based heuristics, the quick improvement abilities of local
search, and efficient labeling procedures for checking compliance with
HOS regulations.

This approach is used to evaluate the impact of different HOS
regulations from a carrier-centric point of view. Extensive
computational experiments conducted for various sets of regulations in
the United States, Canada, the European Union, and Australia are
conducted to provide an international assessment of the impact of
different rules on transportation costs and accident risks. Our
experiments demonstrate that European Union rules lead to the highest
safety, while Canadian regulations are the most competitive in terms
of economic efficiency. Australian regulations appear to have
unnecessarily high risk rates with respect to operating costs. The
recent rule change in the United States reduces accident risk rates
with a moderate increase in operating costs.


## Speaker

[Thibaut Vidal](http://lattes.cnpq.br/1821402316308818) holds a joint
Ph.D in computer science and operations research from the University
of Montreal (UdeM), Canada, and Troyes University of Technology (UTT),
France. After one year of post-doctorate in Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT), he is now visiting researcher at PUC-Rio. His thesis
work was recompensed by five dissertation prizes in different
scientific societies, and is now mentioned in the honor list of the
Dean of Postgraduate Studies, University of Montreal. Thibaut Vidal
introduced efficient structural decomposition techniques and heuristic
algorithms for critical applications in transportation logistics. His
main domains of expertise relate to integer programming, combinatorial
optimization, metaheuristics and local search, with applications to
logistics and supply chain optimization, production management,
resource allocation, and emergency response.

## Important

- Not required a confirmation.
- FGV not allow the entrance of people wearing shorts and/or slippers.
