---
layout: seminar
title: "Spatial structure in population dynamics: from individuals to populations"
quem: Michael Raghib
onde: FGV - Praia de Botafogo, 190, room 317
tex: false
hour: 16:00h
---

Most models of population dynamics that deal with space explicitly, do
so in terms of mean population densities (global or
local);reaction-diffusion equations being a case in point.  This
allows modeling efforts to focus in choosing the most useful
expressions for population growth and dispersal that control the
dynamics of a single state variable, the mean (local or global)
density.  This approach implicitly assumes a fully mixed population,
where all individuals interact with everyone else and thus have equal
access to the uniformly distributed limiting resource.  Nature,
however,is diverse and heterogeneous.  She always surprises us.  In
many cases of real populations, the different characteristic spatial
scales associated with fundamental biological processes lead to
spatially structured populations, characterized by clumping or
(stochastic) regularity.  In those cases, the mean density alone is
insufficient to characterize the state of the population at any given
time.  In this talk I will address the problem of modeling spatially
explicit populations that link the individual scale with the
population via a more general set of summary statistics that keep
track of spatial correlations for various higher order configurations.
This will require the development of new theory, based on applications
of measure-valued stochastic processes, renormalization techniques,
and information theory. Future extensions of this work involve
problems in epidemiology requiring the synthesis of classical
mathematical modeling techniques with machine learning.

## Speaker

[Michael Raghib](http://researcher.watson.ibm.com/researcher/view.php?person=br-mraghib)
is a civil engineer, applied mathematician and theoretical ecologist
interested in mathematical & computational modeling in biology and the
geosciences. His work focuses on merging tools from complex systems
and machine learning with classical physical modeling, and applying
these tools to find solutions for real-world problems in energy,
healthcare, agriculture and the environment. He is Ph.D. in Applied
Mathematics at the University of Glasgow in 2006, and postdoc at Los
Alamos National Laboratory. He joined IBM Research-Brazil as a
Research Staff Member in the Physically-based analytics group in
January 2015. His research interests include stochastic processes,
complex systems, machine learning and cognitive computing. Current
focus explores applications of these areas of applied mathematics and
computer science to problems in applied geosciences and
biology. Current research focus include problems in applied
geosciences and mathematical biology.

## Important

- Not required a confirmation.
- FGV not allow the entrance of people wearing shorts and/or slippers.
