---
layout: seminar
title: Estimating the attack ratio of Dengue epidemics under time-varying force of infection
quem: Flávio Codeço Coelho
onde: FGV - Praia de Botafogo, 190, sala 317
tex: false
hour: 16:00h
---

Quantifying the attack ratio of disease is key to epidemiological
inference and Public Health planning. For multi-serotype pathogens,
however, different levels of serotype-specific immunity make it
difficult to assess the population at risk.  In this paper we propose
a Bayesian method for estimation of the attack ratio of an epidemic
and the initial fraction of susceptibles using aggregated incidence
data.  We derive the probability distribution of the effective
reproductive number, Rt and use MCMC to obtain posterior distributions
of the parameters of a single- strain SIR transmission model with
time-varying force of infection.  Our method is showcased in a data
set consisting of 18 years of dengue incidence in the city of Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.  We demonstrate that it is possible to learn about
the initial fraction of susceptibles and the attack ratio even in the
absence of serotype specific data. On the other hand, the information
provided by this approach is limited, stressing the need for detailed
serological surveys to characterise the distribution of
serotype-specific immunity in the population.


## Palestrante

[Fávio Codeço Coelho Possui](/people/flavio.coelho.html) graduação em
Biologia pela Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (1992), mestrado
em Engenharia Biomédica pela Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro
(1995) e doutorado em Quantitative Biology - The University Of Texas
At Arlington (1999). Foi Professor adjunto da Universidade do Estado
do Rio de Janeiro (2001-2003) e Pesquisador Visitante da Fundação
Oswaldo Cruz (2003 a 2008). Foi pesquisador a nível de pós
doutoramento no Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciência, em Portugal, entre
2008 e 2010. Atualmente é Professor Associado da Escola de Matemática
Aplicada da Fundação Getulio Vargas, onde desenvolve pesquisa na área
de modelagem matemática, estatística e computacional de doenças
infecciosas.

## Observação para visitantes

- A presença é gratuita e não exige confirmação.
- A FGV não permite a entrada de pessoas vestindo bermuda e/ou
  chinelos.
