---
layout: seminar
title: "The Future of Healthcare; Using Data to Save Lives"
quem: Dhesi Baha Raja
onde: FGV - Praia de Botafogo, 190, sala 317
hour: 14-16:00h
---

AIME (Artificial Intelligence in Medical Epidemiology) is a disease
prediction platform utilizing machine learning to predict deadly
disease outbreaks up to 1 month in advance and geolocating them up to
400 meter radius with an accuracy of 88.7%.  Currently, governments
are expending enormous resources and funding to tackle deadly
infectious disease. Armed with this information, government will be
able to manage targeted deadly outbreaks more strategically. This
unique presentation will also focus on breakthrough developments
ranging from 3D printing to personalized stem cell lines, artificial
intelligence, point-of-care labon-a-chip diagnostics to large-scale
bioinformatics and synthetic biology and the implications of low cost
genomics. All of these rapidly developing technologies and more are
discussed in the context of the current explosions of digital
information, big data, data science, and connected and distributed
healthcare.

## Palestrante

Dr Dhesi Baha Raja is attached with Ministry of Health, Malaysia. He
completed his Master in Public Health and is currently pursuing DrPH
(Doctor of Public Health) in University Malaysia Sarawak. He has
invented mutiple Artificial intelligence Health Programs in
Malaysia. I-DAFTAR is an autonomous online intelligent system that
schedules patients appointment in order to reduce congestion and
workload in health clinics. He then developed a second system called
I-KELAHIRAN, an AI birth system that organizes birth data & tracks
high risks pregnancies have been implemented in 43 hospitals and more
than 592 health clinics Nationwide. Dr Dhesi is also the founder of
the leading online health portal; Malaysian Medical Gazette, written
by qualified health professionals for the community & has more than
10,000 daily readers.

Dr Dhesi also won first prize in two separate competitions; Big Data
Analytics by MDEC, IBM & Microsoft as well as another competition by
Genovasi called Global Impact Competition and was sponsored by Google
& ECM Libra Foundation to Singularity University in the National
Aeronautic & Space Administration (NASA) in Silicon Valley,
Califronia. During his graduate studies there, he co-founded a
corporate company AIME (Artificial Intelligence in Medical
Epidmiology) that has the capability to identify deadly outbreaks 1
month in advance & geolocating them up to 400 meter radius. This
invention won a place as the top 5 startups in Silicon Valley & was
the only startup to receive a full grant for the (FIX) Field
Innovation Exchange Program to tackle dengue in Brazil. AIME is now
looking into FLU, HIV/AIDS EBOLA & other infectious diseases. Dr Dhesi
has also been chosen by Forbes International as the top 40 finalist
for 'World Changers' with a prize worth 1 Million USD.

In view of his capabilities in artificial intelligence, medicine & big
data analytics, Dr Dhesi has been selected as an analogue astronaut as
part of the medical team with Crew 158 under the organization Mars
Without Border, MWOB. The mission is scheduled for latter this year at
Mars Desert Research Station, MDRS, in Utah. Multidisciplinary
research studies will be conducted to include innovative technologies
and medical protocols including a yearlong telesurgery-teleanesthesia
training study and testing of an integrated portable solar powered 3D
printer to 3D print surgical tools, a study in collaboration with the
NASA HISEAS Mission IV expedition in Hawaii.


## Observação para visitantes

- A presença é gratuita e não exige confirmação.
- A FGV não permite a entrada de pessoas vestindo bermuda e/ou
  chinelos.
