---
layout: seminar
title: "Heteroscedastic regression models: an objective Bayesian approach"
quem: Helio Migon
onde: FGV - Praia de Botafogo, 190, sala 317
tex: false
hour: 16:00h
---

In many statistical problems the normality assumption is very common
but in many cases untenable for natural phenomena due to the
distribution of the data shows a leptokurtic or a platykurtic shape
and is not robust to outliers. In that context, more flexible models
can be adopted to accommodate this characteristic. One alternative is
to use location-scale models with heavy- tailed prior distributions
like Student-t, exponential power between others. The use of Student
t-distribution for error component is a good alternative because it
provides more flexible tails and reduces the influence of outliers and
robust analysis from a Bayesian point of view is possible, for
example, for regression model. Sometimes a better choice is the
exponential power (EP) distribution that can provide both heavier
(leptokurtic) and lighter tails (platykurtic) than normal density. In
that context, we develop objective Bayesian analysis for linear
heteroscedastic regression models. More specifically, we derive
explicit expressions for Jeffreys priors for the model parameters. For
both, Student-t and EP distributions, we show that some of these
Jeffreys priors lead to a proper posterior distributions. Moreover, we
show that our proposed Bayesian analysis compares favorably to
frequentist analysis previously proposed in the literature.  Finally,
we illustrate our methodology with applications of the Student-t and
exponential power regression models to different datasets.


## Palestrante

[Helio Migon](http://lattes.cnpq.br/7997248190492823) graduou-se em
Estatística pela Escola Nacional de Ciências Estatísticas (1970),
obteve o mestrado em Estatística pela Universidade de São Paulo (1974)
e doutorado em Estatística pela University of Warwick
(1984). Atualmente é professor titular da Universidade Federal do Rio
de Janeiro. Bolsista de pesquisa do CNPq desde 1989. Orienta alunos de
iniciação científica, mestrado e doutorado. Publicou artigos em vários
periódicos de Estatística como Journal of the American Statistical
Association, Journal of the Royal Statistical Society (Series B and
D), Biometrika, Computational Statistics and Data Analysis e
outros. Autor do livro Statistical Inference: an Integrated Approach
(com Dani Gamerman e Francisco Louzada), 2a. edição publicado pela
Chapman-Hall em 2014 (1a. edição pela Arnold em 1999), além de vários
livros nacionais. Editor associado dos periódicos Applied Stochastic
Models in Business and Industry, Brazilian Journal of Probability and
Statistics e Revista de Pesquisa Operacional. Ex-presidente da ABE -
Associação Brasileira de Estatística e ex membro do Comite Assessor da
área de Matemática do CNPq. Coordenador do Programa de Pós-Graduação
em Estatística do IM/UFRJ (2007/09), Diretor Adjunto de Pesquisa do IM
(2005/07) e, atualmente, chefia o Departamento de Métodos Estatístico
do IM. Tem experiência na área de Probabilidade e Estatística, com
ênfase em Probabilidade e Estatística Aplicadas, atuando
principalmente nos seguintes temas: Inferência Bayesiana, Modelos
Dinâmicos e Previsões Bayesianas, Amostragem de Populações Finitas,
Econometria Aplicada a Finanças e Atuária.

## Observação para visitantes

- A presença é gratuita e não exige confirmação.
- A FGV não permite a entrada de pessoas vestindo bermuda e/ou
  chinelos.
